# Problem Solving Interview: Command Line Interface

# Outline
1. What is the CLI?
  1. Why do we want to use the CLI?
  1. How can we use the CLI?
  1. What is a command ?
  1. What is a response/result?
1. Directores -- Locations & Structures
  1. What does it mean for the CLI to be "at" a location?
  1. What is a directory?
  1. What is a file?
  1. What is the structure of one or more directories?
1. Directories -- Commands
  1. What commands allow us to work with directories and locations?
  1. pwd -- See our current location
  1. ls -- See what files & directories are at our current location
  1. cd -- Change our current location
  1. mkdir -- Create a new directory at our current location

# Command Line Interface
## What is the CLI?
  1. Text-based rather than graphical (GUI)
  1. Uses a program called a **terminal**
  1. The terminal operates in a repeating sequence of steps:
    1. Displays a single line of text known as a **prompt**
    1. Accepts a single line of text known as a **command**
    1. When commands are entered, **executes** (or **runs**) them
    1. Displays the **output** (or **result**) of executing commands
    1. Finally, repeats with step 1.

## Why do we use the CLI?
  1. Text entry is more precise than using the mouse
  1. Text entry and keyboard "shorcuts" are faster
  1. As programmers we can create complex commands and run them many times

## What is a command?
  1. Commands are actions that we wish to take using our computer
  1. Frequently they are things we have done before using the GUI
  1. Examples: Creating a new directory or file, moving a file, deleting a file
  1. Every command has three parts:
    1. **Command name** - Specifies the particular command we wish to use
    1. **Options** - Optional information that can modify the command's behavior
    1. **Arguments** - Additional information required for the command to properly execute

## What is output?
  1. Textual information displayed by the computer as a result of running a command
  1. Can be any amount of text (one or more lines)
  1. Frequently the output is blank/empty if the command executed successfully
  1. In other cases, the output is an **error message** indicating that the command did not execute successfully, and why

# Directories
## What is a directory?
  1. **Directories** are also commonly known as **folders**
  1. They represent a location within your computer, and have a **name** to indicate their purpose/contents
  1. They act as containers -- **files** and other directories can be placed "inside" of them

## Directory structure
  1. Directories contain files and other directories
  1. For every file or directory on your computer, the directory that contains it is called the **parent** directory
  1. Similarly the files and directories within a given directory are known as its **children**
  1. There is one directory on your computer which has no parent, it is called the **root** directory

## Directory trees
  1. Based on the terminology in the previous section, you may be imagining a "family tree" kind of diagram for the relationship between directories on your computer
  1. This is a great metaphor for visualizing the structure of directory "trees"
  1. Because directories have names just like people do, we can create a tree diagram showing all of the directories on a computer:

## Paths
  1. A **path** is a text representation of the sequence of child directories used to indicate a particular directory or file relative to the root directory
  1. Using the family tree metaphor, you can think of a path as something like "Audamar is the son of Avice who is the daughter of Liron who is the son of Layla"
  1. However, with computer paths we specify the root directory first going from left to right, so we would say something like "Layla's child Liron's child Avice's child Audamar"
  1. Furthurmore, we use just a `/` (forward slash) character to indicate the separation between parent and child: `Layla/Liron/Avice/Audamar`
