!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade
# Notes

- `rails new farmar-rails -T -d postgresql`
    - `-T` excludes the default test framework (always use this, even if using rspec)
    - `-d postgresql` specifies to use the postgresql database

- bundle install
- rake db:create
- git init
- git commit
- Create a Controller
- Create a Route
- Define an action
- Create a view dir
- Create a index file
- Fill file with content
- Look at application.html.erb
- git commit
- Remove turbo links. Why?
    - Gemfile
    - application.html.erb (two places)
    - application.js
- bundle install (because we removed something from Gemfile)
- git commit
- Create a Vendor model
- rake db:migrate, why?
- Look at model class
- Create a object in console
- Add all vendors in index
- Create a new
- Add a form
- Create a create action
- Redirect to index
- Sign in


Vendor
------
- Name
- Email
- Phone
- Description
- Image URL

Introduction to Rails
=====================

Rails is a **framework** created in 2003 by @dhh and is widely used.

> Twitter, Disney, Hulu, Yellow Pages, GroupOn, GitHub, LivingSocial, IndieGoGo...


!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

Rails is a DSL
==============

Rails, like Sinatra, is a DSL for creating web pages.

Fully open-source, it is constantly adapting to new trends and requirements of modern web development.

http://rubyonrails.org/

https://github.com/rails/rails


!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

Creating a New Rails Project
============================

<pre>$ cd ~/projects

$ rails new my_new_app

$ cd my_new_app/
</pre>


!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

What Happened?
==============

The Rails gem includes a command-line tool ```rails``` that has a number of options. With it we can start a server, quickly create new classes, or work with the database, among others. The command ```new``` creates a new directory and creates all the subdirectories and files a Rails application needs to have in order to get started.

!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

What's Inside?
==============

Let's take a tour!


!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

Starting A Rails Server
=======================

<pre>$ rails server</pre>

This command starts the default web server ```WEBrick``` which we can access at http://localhost:3000 on our computer. It will display the output of the log, showing all the errors, warnings, and notifications generated by the app, all the DB queries, and some basic timing information. Let's take a look at that!


!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

What Did We Learn?
==================
+ Rails is a framework, providing a DSL for building websites
+ How to create a new Rails project
+ What a starting Rails project contains
+ How to start the Rails Server
+ How to read the Rails log


!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

Other Rails Resources
=====================
http://guides.rubyonrails.org/

http://railsforzombies.org/


!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

Building A Rails App
====================

Let's build a small dice-rolling Rails app together. (30 min)


!SLIDE text-size-90 title-and-content transition=fade

Project Time
============

Build a small, stateless (no DB) Rails application:

+ Calculator
+ Wizard Sorting Hat
+ Hamming distance
